I chose my people.
I chose Wakanda.
My name is King T'Challa...
son of King T'Chaka.
Our future depended...
You were wrong!
All of you were wrong!
To turn your backs
on the rest of the world!
I am the sovereign ruler
of the nation of Wakanda.
Share what we have.
We could provide aid...
and access to technology
and refuge to those who need it.
Other countries do it,
we could do it better.
T'- Wakanda will no longer
watch from the shadows.
We cannot.
We must not.
We will work to be an example of how we...
as brothers and sisters on this earth...
should treat each other.
Now, more than ever...
More connects us than separates us.
But in times of crisis...
the wise build bridges...
while the foolish build barriers.
Who are you?
T'- We must find a way...
to look after one another...
as if we were one, single tribe.
N'- Millions of years ago...
a meteorite made of vibranium,
the strongest substance
in the universe...
struck the continent of Africa...
...affecting the plant life around it.
And when the time of man came,
a warrior shaman received a vision
from the Panther Goddess Bast...
who led him to the Heart-Shaped Herb...
a plant that granted him superhuman
strength, speed and instincts.
The warrior became king...
and the first Black Panther...
the protector of Wakanda.
- At a special
United Nations conference...
117 countries have come together
to ratify the Sokovia Accords.
-Get down!
-- I didn't kill your father.
-T'- Then why did you run?
T'- Because your friend
murdered my father...
I ask you,
as both warrior and king...
how long do you think you can
keep your friend safe from me?
Barnes is mine.
You're after the wrong guy.
The psychiatrist, he's behind all of this.
T'- My father is dead, Nakia.
I will be crowned king tomorrow.
And I wish for you to be there.
This never gets old.
How are you feeling today, Mama?
Proud.
Your father and I would talk
about this day all the time.
He is with us.
And it is your time to be king.
- M'Baku, what are you doing here?
It's challenge day.
Show him who you are!
- I now present to you...
King T'Challa...
...the Black Panther.
Wakanda forever!
- Wakanda forever!
Breathe.
T'- I am not ready
to be without you.
Tell me how to best protect Wakanda.
I want to be a great king, Baba.
Just like you.
T'- You're going to struggle.
So you'll need to surround yourself
with people you trust.
You're a good man with a good heart.
And it's hard for a good man to be king.
I came to support you
and to honor your father...
but I can't stay.
I can't be happy here...
knowing that there's people out there
who have nothing.
About two billion people
all over the world that looks like us.
Wakanda has the tools to liberate 'em all.
What do you want?
I want the throne.
Do not do this, T'Challa.
Snap out of it, T'Challa!
-No.
-No!
No!
- We're taking
the Heart-Shaped Herb to Jabariland.
It's what made T'Challa so strong.
- I call upon the ancestors.
I call upon Bast.
I am here with my son, T'Challa.
T'- In my culture...
death is not the end.
It's more of a stepping-off point.
Wake up, T'Challa.
Wake up.
I cannot stay here with you.
I cannot rest
while he sits on the throne.
He is a monster of our own making.
Speak nothing of this.
- You ain't the son
of a king. You a son of a murderer.
I must right these wrongs.
You can't let your father's mistakes
define who you are.
T'- I am not my father.
You get to decide what kind of king
you are going to be.
When you said we were going to open
Wakanda to the rest of the world,
this is not what I imagined.
T'- How big of an assault
should we expect?
Uh, sir, I think you should
expect quite a big assault.
T'- Evacuate the city.
Engage all defenses.
And get this man a shield.
Wakanda forever!
T'- The Black Panther has been the
protector of Wakanda for generations.
A mantle, passed from warrior to warrior.